/var/log/kern.log.1:May 14 08:33:49 freddie-Precision-7510 kernel: [ 3.174870] UBSAN: array-index-out-of-bounds in /build/linux-hwe-6.5-X9ca7v/linux-hwe-6.5-6.5.0/drivers/gpu/drm/radeon/radeon_atom
pasted
FH

This log indicates an "array-index-out-of-bounds" error detected by UBSAN (Undefined Behavior Sanitizer) in the radeon graphics driver code in the Linux kernel.

Key points:

    The issue occurred in the function radeon_atombios_parse_power_table_6 in the file radeon_atombios.c at line 2717.
    The error message states "index 48 is out of range for type 'UCHAR [1]'", indicating an attempt to access an array element beyond its bounds.
    The call trace shows the execution path leading to the error, involving various functions in the radeon driver and the kernel's module loading process.
    The system is running Linux kernel version 6.5.0-35-generic on an Ubuntu 22.04.1 system.
    The hardware is identified as a Dell Precision 7510 laptop.

This type of error suggests a bug in the radeon driver code where it tries to access an array element with an invalid index. UBSAN helps catch such undefined behavior at runtime.

While this error is caught and reported, it may or may not lead to a system crash or instability depending on how the driver handles the situation. Such bugs should ideally be fixed in the driver code to ensure proper functionality and system stability.
FH

Ok so it could lead to a buffer overflow?

Yes, an array-index-out-of-bounds error like this could potentially lead to a buffer overflow vulnerability if the invalid array access is exploitable.

In this specific case, the error occurs in kernel code (the radeon graphics driver), which runs with high privileges. If an attacker could find a way to trigger this error condition in a controlled manner, they might be able to overwrite adjacent memory, potentially leading to arbitrary code execution or other unintended behavior.

However, the presence of UBSAN instrumentation helps catch and mitigate such issues. UBSAN is a runtime checker that detects undefined behavior, including out-of-bounds array accesses, and terminates the offending process. This makes it harder for potential vulnerabilities to be exploited.

Nonetheless, any out-of-bounds access in kernel code is a serious issue that should be investigated and fixed promptly. Even if not directly exploitable, it could lead to system instability, crashes, or other unexpected behavior.

It's important for the radeon driver maintainers to analyze this bug, determine its impact, and develop a suitable patch to address the underlying issue. Updating to a kernel version with the fix applied would be recommended once available.
FH

UBSAN might not be able to stop attackers compromising the system though

You're correct. While UBSAN is a valuable tool for detecting undefined behavior and potential vulnerabilities, it's not foolproof and may not stop all attacks.

UBSAN works by instrumenting the code with runtime checks. When it detects an issue, like an out-of-bounds access, it typically terminates the offending process. However, there are scenarios where UBSAN might not provide complete protection:

    If the undefined behavior occurs in a way that doesn't trigger the UBSAN checks, the issue might go undetected.
    An attacker might find ways to bypass or disable UBSAN checks through clever manipulation of the program's state or input.
    If the undefined behavior occurs in a critical system process or in the kernel itself (as in this case), terminating the process could lead to a system crash or render the system unusable, which could be leveraged for a denial-of-service attack.
    In some cases, the undefined behavior might corrupt system state or leak sensitive information before UBSAN detects and terminates the process.

Moreover, even if UBSAN catches the issue, the mere presence of an out-of-bounds access in kernel code is a serious concern. It indicates a underlying bug that could be triggerable through other means or could have other unintended consequences.

Therefore, while UBSAN is a useful defensive mechanism, it's not a complete solution. Proper code auditing, secure coding practices, and promptly patching known vulnerabilities are essential for maintaining system security. Kernel bugs like this should be thoroughly investigated and fixed, as they could potentially be exploited to compromise the entire system, even with UBSAN in place.